This software allows you to program your Logitech Harmony remote using a
configuration object retreived from the harmony website:
  http://members.harmonyremote.com/

The website is required. The website is required in Logitech's software as
well, it's just that their software wraps the website. Their website has
all the logic on what codes work with what remotes and what hardware, etc.
The software just takes the binary blobs that the website makes and writes
it to the remote control. This is true for both Logitech's software and
this software.

However, this software has some extra functionality such as being able to
dump (backup) your existing config, being cross-platform, and giving you
extra visibility into what's actually happening with your remote.

Here is how you use this software:

NOTE TO WINDOWS USERS: You do NOT need to type "sudo" - this is ONLY for
Unix and Mac users!

0. I got a file from the website, do something useful with it.

  $ sudo concordance <filename>

This will attempt to figure out what to do, and do it. This option is designed
for associating the .EZHex extension in your browser with the concordance
software. Of course, this requires your desktop environment to support someway
of getting concordance root access such as gksu or similar (udev can also be
used to give your user access to the device directly), but should allow the
same seemless process the Logitech software does.

1. Backup the config

  $ sudo concordance --dump-config=/tmp/config.EZHex

This will read the config off of your remote and write it to /tmp/config.EZHex.
It's a good tool for development as well as backing up your config. This can
however be created from the members.harmonyremote.com website. The equals
is needed if you pass in a filename since the filename is optional. If
you don't specify, concordance will use 'config.EZHex' in the current directory.

2. Connectivity test

Go to members.harmonyremote.com, and when you're ready, choose "Update My
Remote." Before Logitech provides an actual config, they will first attempt to
do a connectivity test. Downloaded the Connectivity.EZHex file, and then run
the test:

  $ sudo concordance Connectivity.EZHex

If that doesn't work, you may want to try telling concordance what it is
manually:
  $ sudo concordance --connectivity-test Connectivity.EZHex

3. Write a config

Once the connectivity test is successfully completed, the site will prompt you
to download the actual config in a file called Update.EZHex. Save it and then
you can use it with:

  $ sudo concordance Update.EZHex

Again, concordance should do the right thing here, but in case of problems you
can explicitly tell concordance what to do with:
  $ sudo concordance --write-config Update.EZHex

4. Backup the firmware

Sometimes the site will want to update your firmware. Concordance allows you to
backup your old firmware so you may later revert if you prefer. You can do this
with:

  $ sudo concordance --dump-firmware

This will read the firmware off of your remote and write it to fimrware.EZHex.
See "1. Backup the config" for more information.

5. Write firmware

NOTE: THIS IS NOT YET SUPPORTED ON MOST REMOTES. However for the 880, the only model we currently support this on, it works like this:

  $ sudo concordance Firmware.EZHex

Again, if you have a problem, you can tell concordance what to do explicitly:
  $ sudo concordance --write-firmware Firmware.EZHex


There are other options - check out the --help one!


THIS SOFTWARE IS NOT SUPPORTED BY OR IN ANY WAY RELATED TO LOGITECH!


- Phil Dibowitz

