This software allows you to program your Logitech Harmony remote using a
configuration object retreived from the harmony website:
  http://members.harmonyremote.com/

The website is required. The website is required in Logitech's software as
well, it's just that their software wraps the website. Their website has
all the logic on what codes work with what remotes and what hardware, etc.
The software just takes the binary blobs that the website makes and writes
it to the remote control. This is true for both Logitech's software and
this software.

However, this software has some extra functionality such as being able to
dump (backup) your existing config, being cross-platform, and giving you
extra visibility into what's actually happening with your remote.

Here is how you use this software:

0. I got a file from the website, do something useful with it.

  $ sudo harmony <filename>

This will attempt to figure out what to do, and do it. Note that harmony uses
the *filename* to figure out what to do with it, so don't rename it. This
option is designed for associating the .EZHex extension in your browser with
the harmony software. Of course, this requires your desktop environment to
support someway of getting harmony root access such as gksu or similar, but
should allow the same seemless process the Logitech software does. If you
would prefer to rename it, tell harmony what you need done using one of it's
many options...

1. Backup the config

  $ sudo harmony --dump-config=/tmp/config.EZHex

This will read the config off of your remote and write it to /tmp/config.EZHex.
It's a good tool for development as well as backing up your config. This can
however be created from the members.harmonyremote.com website. The equals
is needed if you pass in a filename since the filename is optional. If
you don't specify, harmony will use 'config.EZHex' in the current directory.

2. Write a config

Once you have downloaded a file from members.harmonyremote.com website to
program your remote with, you can use it with:

  $ sudo harmony --write-config Update.EZHex

3. Backup the firmware

  $ sudo harmony --dump-firmware

This will read the firmware off of your remote and write it to fimrware.EZHex.
See "1. Backup the config" for more information.

4. Write firmware

NOTE: THIS IS NOT YET SUPPORTED. However it would work like this:

  $ sudo harmony --write-firmware Firmware.EZHex


There are other options - check out the --help one!


THIS SOFTWARE IS NOT SUPPORTED BY OR IN ANY WAY RELATED TO LOGITECH!


- Phil Dibowitz

